# Decentralised websites and Web 3.0

## A quick rundown of web 1, 2 & 3

Web1
 - The web was readonly. Everything was decentralised because everyone was hosting their own websites 

Web2
 - The web is read & write - we now need servers! Centralised everything into cloud platforms (AWS, Azure etc.). Cloud platorms won the competetive-driven pricing game through economies of scale. They attracted consumers because everyone hates running servers and platforms can provide services ontop of servers

Web3
 - Aims to cover some of the functionality of web 2 but in a decentralised manner


## Key players in a web2 website

### Static files

Files (html, js, css) which are stored in a cloud environmet

### Cloud services (authentication, api's, databases, etc)

The website will connect to the creators cloud environment and also 3rd party cloud environments to provide functionality for the website.

### Decentralised services (crypto, DeFi, DAO's)

### A domain

Purchased and payed for yearly through a domain registrar. The information relating to this domain is stored and managed by ICANN - a non profit in the USA. ICANN allocates ip address space and manages DNS for the internet.


## Key players in a web3 website and how they're different

### Static files

Files (html, js, css) which are stored on IPFS - a peer to peer decetralised storage network. Instead of fetching files on location it fetches based on this thing called a content address. 

A content address hash is generated by the file content and is unique

The files themselves are stored across various peers on the network and are fetched via IPFS given the content address hash.




### Cloud services (authentication, api's, databases, etc)

### Decentralised services (crypto, DeFi, DAO's)

### A NFT domain

Your domain is an NFT which you personally own in a digital wallet on a cryptocurreny network. It is verifiebly unique via a blockchain. 

Host websites, receive crypto, login to web3 apps.

Because you personally own your domain this eliminates the risk of ICANN's servers being hacked, domains being stolen or government intervention. 


## Challenges of Web3

Incentives drive things towards centralisation

User experience is terrible

Developer experience is terrible